Chapter 4 – Piety

"Piety dies not with men; in their life and in their death it is immortal." - Sophocles

The contradiction of the empty space not having the light of God in it and yet the fact that there is no place empty of His presence ("for the whole earth is full of His Glory." - Isaiah chapter 6) is the root of Quantum mechanics and the wave function becoming a particle as it is observed is parallel to the fact that God's presence is everywhere until you try to observe it, and then the laws of the empty space take over which is the root of all non-belief in God. Thus, we find that trying to get close to God has the effect of destroying a person's spirituality. In Quantum mechanics we learn, change can only happen when you aren't looking.

Most people's lives have one focal point or center of mass (and so it is with nations also). If it is an elliptical orbit there are two centers. But this is on different planes of spirituality, i.e., on the basic level God alone should be the center of gravity. But on the other level how can one serve or know God? So, he has to circle around the righteous one who contains the light of God in him. So even though God is everything, in another way (the level of "He fills all worlds") He is the light inside the righteous one -- thus we find people focusing on Jesus or Rabbi Nachman or Halacha or the land of Israel etc. The right way is to concentrate on God alone and follow all these things as tools to come close to God; but not to concentrate on the tools.

People's lives are like sine or cosine functions so that even as they progress closer to God (the origin) the function really doesn't change — just the ups and downs get less. This is the reason everything turns into its opposite. But this is only if one doesn't progress towards the origin (God) which dampens the oscillations. (The idea that everything turns into its opposite [as the Sages said in terms of the poor becoming rich and vice versa; "There is a wheel which is turning in the world."] only applies on the level of the lower six sephirot, not the top three, so Science and Kabbalah tend to help one to rise out of the rat race.)
