The commandments aren't an automatic drawing of holiness. They are like functions that you have to first put in the number 0. You have to draw the holiness by love and fear of God (as per the tikkunim of Rabbi Moshe Chayim Lutzato) which come only by science and kabbalah (known to the sages by the name, "Work of Creation", and "Divine Chariot'", which the Sages of the Talmud call a great and important thing, in relation to the Talmud which they call a small thing) as the Rambam states at the beginning of Mishneh Torah.

The reason you have to pray alone in a closet or in a forest is that all spiritual matter and energy are a wave attached to God; until it is observed, at which point it is a particle. Like Rabbi Nachman said that observing something makes a "vessel", i.e., makes something have a specific place and time. It seems in the Eitz Chayim that this was caused by the original breaking of the vessels in nekudim, i.e., the original symmetry. For before that, there was no reason to think that the vessels would have fallen just by being looked at. So, it seems that in their original state they could have stayed connected to God in their wave particle form even after being looked at. But I'm not sure about this, since the breaking was apparently from too much light coming at once, which seems like a macrocosmic event along the lines of classical Physics.

On Nov. 19, 1619, Descartes crawled inside a large stove, and spent the day in privacy, warmth, and darkness, meditating. There he had a vision - that everything, man nature, the cosmos all work by means of Mathematical principles. That is by hiding himself he got in contact with his higher root by becoming a wave. That was right after the period of Rabbi Isaac Luria and Rabbi Joseph Karo, so Kabbalah and Halacha had been brought to their perfection and the time for science had come.

Although there is an absolute center of the empty space, each individual also has, in a parallel way, the level of the line of God's light in his individual direction – just as space-time manifolds have, at each point, a double-cone of light-like directions.
