"It takes many years of sifting through false teachers to find a wise one. Don't be so fast to give up the wise teachers of history for they have been sifted from millions of false ones and their teachings have stood the test of the ages." (Greenfield).

The Bible, the Sutras, the Talmud, Jesus, and Socrates may seem to contradict but in fact each sees a different aspect of and points to the same truth. Each were digging up the building blocks of the final structure. (Not to say that the structure is ever finished). Some people are content to poke around the stones, and others to try to knock down someone else's stone I think it is wiser to assemble them into one great building and then to ride the elevator to the top to see further.

Nietzsche was a spark of Jeremiah the prophet whose root is in pure Judgment. Since he wasn't Jewish he lacked the one defining characteristic of the Jewish soul – integration, i.e., combining and integrating judgment with kindness. This is how Einstein was able to combine electro-magnetism with kinematics and also was the root of his idea of combining all the four forces into one. Other examples of this are the Rambam combining revelation and reason, Spinoza combining philosophy and mathematics.

God is both secular and religious. On the level of the 3 highest sephirot God is secular, and on the level of the lower 7, He is religious. The constant flux between these two poles creates the wave pattern that is so characteristic of Western civilization. The Greeks and Romans were quite religious yet their thinkers were secular. The Jewish world also is characterized by the interplay between the different poles that vary with time, e.g., Chasidus and the Gra, Kabbalah and legalism, Sepharadi and Ashkenazi, etc.

On The Nature of God and Existence

God contains the set of all things, the existing and the non-existing. But that is only on one plane of reality. You have to go up to the next level and there God also is and includes the set of all ideas existing and non-existing, and so on vertically.

Existence itself is only one characteristic of God. The hidden face where he makes himself non-existent is a result of our own hiding ourselves from him by not talking and communicating with him.
